Add worker changes to U9 release note (#8902)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.9.0/RELEASE_NOTE.md

### New features

#### Introduction of the alternate receive action

> The alternate receive action can be used to receive values corresponding to multiple send actions. It operates by waiting until it encounters a non-error message, a panic termination status on a closed channel, or the closure of all channels. Alternate receive action sets the first non-error value it encounters as the result.

Reviewer: To differentiate between this and multiple receive should we say
```suggestion
The alternate receive action can be used to receive one of multiple values corresponding to multiple send actions. It operates by waiting until it encounters a non-error message, a panic termination status on a closed channel, or the closure of all channels. Alternate receive action sets the first non-error value it encounters as the result.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/lang.runtime;

public function main() {
    worker w1 {
        2 -> function;
    }

    worker w2 {
        runtime:sleep(2);
        3 -> function;
    }

    worker w3 returns error? {
        int value = 10;
        if value == 10 {
            return error("Error in worker 3");
        }
        value -> function;
    }

    worker w4 {
        runtime:sleep(2);
        3 -> function;
    }

>     // The value of the variable `result` is set as soon as the value from either

Reviewer: Move closer to usage?

Author: Can we? same as https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8902#discussion_r1567199378. Named workers have to be declared first right?

Reviewer: Ah, yes.

    // worker `w1` or `w2` is received.
    int result1 = <- w1 | w2;
    io:println(result1); // 2

    // Alternate receive action waits until a message that is not an error is received. 
    // Since `w3` returns an error, it waits further and sets the value that is received from `w4`.
    int|error? result2 = <- w3 | w4;
    io:println(result2); // 3
}
```

#### Introduction of the multiple receive action

The multiple receive action can be used to receive values corresponding to multiple send actions. It operates by waiting for the receipt of values from all the send actions, subsequently constructing a mapping value containing those values.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/lang.runtime;

public function main() {
    worker w1 {
        2 -> function;
    }

    worker w2 {
        runtime:sleep(2);
        3 -> function;
    }

    // The worker waits until both values are received.
    Result result = <- {a: w1, b: w2};
    io:println(result); // {"a":2,"b":3}
}

type Result record {
    int a;
    int b;
};
```

> #### The `send-action` is allowed to be executed conditionally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Support for conditional worker send action
```

The send action in workers can be used in a conditional context, allowing for more flexible and dynamic inter-worker communication based on specific conditions. The receiver side in a conditional send might not always receive a message. Thus, to handle such scenarios, the static type of the receive action includes the `error:NoMessage` type.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    boolean isDataReady = true;

    worker w1 {
        // A send action can be used in a conditional context.
        if isDataReady {
            10 -> function;
        }
    }

    worker w2 {
        if isDataReady {
            1 -> function;
        } else {
            0 -> function;
        }
    }

    // The send action corresponding to this receive action is conditionally executed.
    // Thus, there is a possibility that the send action may not get executed.
    // Therefore, the static type of the receive includes the `error:NoMessage` type
    // indicating the absence of a message in such cases.
    int|error:NoMessage w1Message = <- w1;
    io:println(w1Message); // 10

>     // Two different conditional send actions exists within the worker `w3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Two different conditional send actions exist within the worker `w3`.
```

    // Therefore, an alternate receive action can be used to receive them.
    int|error:NoMessage w2Message = <- w2 | w2;
    io:println(w2Message); // 1
}
```

> #### Introduction of the `on-fail` clause for named workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Introduction of the `on fail` clause for named workers
```

> The `on fail` clause can be incorporated into a named worker, to handle any errors that occur within the worker's body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `on fail` clause can be used with a named worker, to handle any errors that occur within the worker's body.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    int[] values = [2, 3, 4, 5];
    int value = 0;

    worker w1 {
        int index = check getIndex(values, value);
        index -> function;
    } on fail {
        // Handle the error thrown in the worker body.
        -1 -> function;
    }

    int|error:NoMessage result = <- w1 | w1;
    io:println(result); // -1
}

function getIndex(int[] values, int value) returns int|error =>

>     let int? index = values.indexOf(value) in index is () ? error("value not found") : index;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    let int? index = values.indexOf(value) in index ?: error("value not found");
```

### New features

#### Introduction of several features to workers

> Several new features have been introduced to enhance the capabilities of workers.  

Reviewer: IMO, we can have separate headings for these instead of a generic header.

> - Introduction of alternate receive action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduction of the alternate receive action
```

> - Introduction of alternate receive action

Author: Made them separate headlines.

> The alternate receive action can be used to receive values from multiple send actions. It operates by waiting until it encounters a non-error message, a panic termination status on a closed channel, or the closure of all channels. Alternate receive action sets the first non-error value it encounters as the outcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The alternate receive action can be used to receive values corresponding to multiple send actions. It operates by waiting until it encounters a non-error message, a panic termination status on a closed channel, or the closure of all channels. Alternate receive action sets the first non-error value it encounters as the result.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/lang.runtime;

public function main() {
    worker w1 {
        2 -> w3;
    }

    worker w2 {
        runtime:sleep(2);
        3 -> w3;
    }

    worker w3 returns int {

>         // The value of the variable `result` is set as soon as the values from either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // The value of the variable `result` is set as soon as the value from either
```

        // worker `w1` or `w2` is received.
        int result = <- w1 | w2;
        return result;
    }

    worker w4 returns error? {
        int value = 10;
        if value == 10 {
            return error("Error in worker 4");
        }
        value -> w6;
    }

    worker w5 {
        runtime:sleep(2);
        3 -> w6;
    }

    worker w6 returns int|error? {
        // Alternate receive action waits until a message that is not an error is received. 
        // Since `w4` returns an error, it waits further and sets the value that is received from `w5`.
        int a = check <- w4 | w5;
        return a;
    }

    int w3Result = wait w3;
    io:println(w3Result);

> 

Reviewer: Shall we move this closer to the usage?

Author: Removed the unnecessary workers and simplified the code. However, can't move them closer as the named workers have to be defined at the beginning of the [block-function-body](https://ballerina.io/spec/lang/master/#block-function-body)

    int|error? w6Result = wait w6;
    io:println(w6Result);
}
```

> - Introduction of multiple receive action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduction of the multiple receive action
```

> The multiple receive action can be used to receive values from multiple send actions. It operates by awaiting the receipt of values from all the send actions, subsequently constructing a map containing those values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The multiple receive action can be used to receive values corresponding to multiple send actions. It operates by waiting for the receipt of values from all the send actions, subsequently constructing a mapping value containing those values.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/lang.runtime;

type Result record {
    int a;
    int b;
};

public function main() {
    worker w1 {
        2 -> w3;
    }

    worker w2 {
        runtime:sleep(2);
        3 -> w3;
    }

    worker w3 returns Result {
        // The worker waits until both values are received.
        Result result = <- {a: w1, b: w2};
        return result;
    }

    Result result = wait w3;

>     io:println(result);

Reviewer: Do we need another worker here? Why not use the multiple receive action in the function worker?

Author: Thanks. This simplified all samples.

}
```

- The `send-action` is allowed to be executed conditionally

> The send action in workers can be used in a conditional context, allowing for more flexible and dynamic inter-worker 

Reviewer: We don't need these line breaks. Merge wherever applicable.

> communication based on specific conditions. The receiver-side in a conditional send might not always receive a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communication based on specific conditions. The receiver side in a conditional send might not always receive a 
```

> message. Thus, to handle such scenarios, the static type of the receiver variable include the `error:NoMessage` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
message. Thus, to handle such scenarios, the static type of the receive action includes the `error:NoMessage` type.
```

> ```ballerina

Reviewer: Please see comments on the previous example.

import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    boolean isDataReady = true;

    worker w1 {
        // A send action can be used in a conditional context.
        if isDataReady {
            10 -> w2;
        }
    }

    worker w2 returns int|error:NoMessage {
        // The send action corresponding to this receive action is conditionally executed.
        // Thus, there is a possibility that the send action may not get executed.
        // Therefore, the static type of the receive includes the `error:NoMessage` type
        // indicating the absence of a message in such cases.
        int|error:NoMessage a = <- w1;
        return a;
    }

    worker w3 {
        if isDataReady {
            1 -> w4;
        } else {
            0 -> w4;
        }
    }

    worker w4 returns int|error:NoMessage {
        // Two different conditional send actions exists within the worker `w3`.
        // Therefore, an alternate receive action can be used to receive them.
        int|error:NoMessage d = <- w3 | w3;
        return d;
    }

    int|error:NoMessage w2Result = wait w2;
    io:println(w2Result);

    int|error:NoMessage w4Result = wait w4;
    io:println(w4Result);
}
```

> - Introduction of `on-fail-clause` to the named workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduction of the `on fail` clause for named workers
```

The `on fail` clause can be incorporated into a named worker, to handle any errors that occur within the worker's body.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

function getIndex(int[] values, int value) returns int|error {
    int? index = values.indexOf(value);
    if index is () {
        return error("value not found");
    } 

    return index;

> }

Reviewer: Shall we simplify this to an expression-bodied function with let and move this to the end of the example?

public function main() {
    int[] values = [2, 3, 4, 5];
    int value = 0;

    worker w1 {
        int index = check getIndex(values, value);
        index -> w2;
    } on fail {
        // Handle the error thrown in the worker body.
        -1 -> w2;
    }

>     worker w2 returns int|error:NoMessage {

Reviewer: Here again, since we are waiting again in the function worker, do we really need this other worker?
